---
title: Navigation
permalink: /guide/navigating
excerpt: >
    Navigating menus can be hard when you may not be able to read them. This page
    aims to guide a user around the game and gain some familiarity with the menus.
---

Navigating menus can be hard when you may not be able to read them. This page
aims to guide a user around the game and gain some familiarity with the menus.

Some sections may be under-detailed or sub-menus not annotated.
{:.warning}

## Title screen

{% include image.html file="howto-nav-title.png" description="Game launch title screen" %}

1. Data Recovery (修復) - clears asset data from the device, with an option to remove save data
2. Data Transfer (引継ぎ) - Displays screen to link account
3. FAQ 
4. Rewatch Opening Sequence

If this is your first time opening the game, tapping anywhere will walk you
through the privacy policy and initial set up of the game. Tapping the red
button in each prompt will get you through.

## Home screen

Welcome to your main base of operations, professor!

{% include image.html file="howto-nav-home1.png" description="Home screen" %}

1. Events - Important time based events you don’t want to miss!
2. Player Information - Information about you, professor!
3. Resources - Gacha gems, Flora (gold/coins), and Stamina
4. Ranking - arena and guild rankings
5. Mail - For in-game mail like arena and event rewards
6. 2D-3D switch - Switch between 3D models of your girls, and the card they are based on.
7. Announcements - event and banner updates, maintenance apologies, etc.
8. Remove UI
9. Settings
10. [Quests](../content/missions#quests) - Story quests, etc
11. [Dailies](../content/missions#dailies) - Daily missions
12. Information - Login bonuses, login events, and battle pass
13. Chat group - Your girls will send you messages and video calls occasionally!
14. [Quest](#quest) - Story mode
15. Gift box - Exchange tokens and credits for resources
16. [Arena](#arena) - Multiplayer
17. Summon - Gacha hell. Luci pls roll me some NaT 20s
18. Card - View and strengthen cards
19. [Witch](#witch-details) - View, equip and strengthen your witches.
20. [Guild hall](#guild) - Join your friends and help each other out
21. More news - hey guys pls buy the monthly pass

You can tap on any character in the scenery to [interact](#interaction) with them!

Tapping on the arrow below the 10-13 options will expand the menu row and open up more options.

{% include image.html file="howto-nav-home2.png" description="Detail of expanded options in the home screen" %}

23. [Bonds](unit-bonds) - Gain bonuses for having multiple members from the same unit in your team!
24. Field guide - access your memories (story MVs), collection (card ability MVs), and [witches' notes](notes)
25. [Witch activities](activities)
26. Friends
27. Bag - items
28. [Room](#rooms) - customise your home page


## Interaction

{% include image.html file="howto-nav-interact.png" description="A close encounter with Rosetta" %}

1. Growth - Access the growth page from here
2. Costume - Change her costume
3. Intimacy - `needs confirmation`{:.warning}
4. [Gift](#gifting) - Give your girl items they may or may not like.
5. [AR](#ar) - Send your girl into real life except not really
6. Details - Details about your girl
7. Logbook - Select from all of your witches
8. [Affection]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/1.3.1-affection.md %}) - How much your girl loves you
9. Share - Share your love for your girl on social media! (You get 50 gems for the 1st time!)
10. Picture - Take a picture!
11. Gift opportunities - How many times you can receive 5 gems for headpatting your girl. Recharges per day.
12. Patting opportunities - How many times you can headpat your girl. Recharges per hour.
13. Scroll - Scroll through the witches on your home screen

## Gifting

You can give your girls gifts! There are 4 different kinds of gifts.

{% include image.html file="howto-nav-present.png" description="Giving candy to a young Kaede" %}

1. Goods
2. Dessert
3. Toys
4. Food (because this is very different from dessert)

Depending on the girl, they may be more receptive to certain types of gifts than others.

You can hold down the button to select multiple of the same gift quickly.

## Witch details

{% include image.html file="howto-witch-details.png" description="Viewing details for a single witch" %}

1. Equipment - Inspect and improve their equipment
2. Outfit - Change their outfit
3. Logbook - Select a witch to view from a menu
4. Switch - View the next or previous witch in your collection
5. [Affection]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/1.3.1-affection.md %}) level - Personal bond with the girl
6. Card details - Which card you’re using, their skills, and their personal attributes. Tap and hold to view the card details
7. Total stats - HP (green), defence (orange), physical attack (red), and magical attack (blue)

### Equipment

{% include image.html file="howto-witch-equipment.png" description="Inspecting Lynette's equipment" %}

1. Weapon
2. Hair accessory
3. Neck accessory
4. Arm accessory
5. Ear accessory (unlocked at affection rank 15)
6. Trinket (unlocked at affection rank 20)
7. Strengthen all - Upgrades equipment as much as possible with your current materials.

Different weapons and accessories give stat improvements.

{% include image.html file="howto-witch-equipment2.png" description="Switching between available weapons for Lynette" %}

Additional weapons can be unlocked by:

- Levelling the starter weapon to rank 50
- Completing all weapon missions in the character's [witch notes](notes)

After clearing stage 7-10, equipment can be [improved by using
spellbooks]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/1.3.5-equipment.md %}) that are rewarded from quests.

### Card details

{% include image.html file="howto-nav-card.png" description="Inspecting details for Ratura" %}

1. Equipment - Go back to the equipment page
2. Card details - Name, Rarity, Flower level, Star level. Press the magnifying glass to remove UI
3. Card stats
4. Skills - The cards skills
5. Enhanced attack - More powerful version of a normal attack that may appear in battle
6. Characteristics - Tags indicating a card’s strengths, such as AoE damage or debuffing
7. Witch details - Character, voice actress, etc.
8. Attribute - Character aspect used in [witch activities]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/2.25-activities.md %})
9. Strengthen (the current page)
10. [Evolve]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/1.3.4-bloom.md %})
11. [Limit Break]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/1.3.3-stars.md %})
12. Stories (renamed since image was taken) - Read the card's story, and a quick link to the card's quest

## AR

{% include image.html file="howto-nav-ar.png" description="Interacting with Angelica in augmented reality!" %}

1. Leave AR
2. Help
3. Pose
4. Dance
5. Change outfit
6. Touch mode
7. Take picture
8. Expression
9. Change phone orientation
10. Reset changes
11. Dialogue ON/OFF
12. Shadow ON/OFF
13. Set eyes to follow camera ON/OFF

## Quests

{% include image.html file="howto-nav-quests.png" description="The quests home page" %}

1. [Witch's Theatre]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/2.10.2-theatre.md %}) - Fight boss lives to your favourite songs
2. [Witch Examinations]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/2.10.3-exam.md %}) - A place to battle powerful opponents for big rewards
3. [Resources]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/2.10.4-resource.md %})
4. [Unit quests]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/2.10.5-unit.md %})
5. [Card quests]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/2.10.6-card.md %})
6. Chapter selection - The [main story]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link guide/2.10.1-main.md %})

## Guild

`TODO`{:.warning}

The guild is detailed in full in its [own page](guild).

## Rooms

{% include image.html file="howto-nav-room.png" description="The room menu" %}

The rooms menu is where you can customise your home layout and who appears in
it.

Rooms have some gameplay mechanics that are explained in their own article
[here](room).
