---
title: Battling
key: howto-battle
permalink: /guide/battle
---

## Team-building

{% include image.html file="howto-team.png" description="Building a team" %}

A team consists of up to 5 witches that you will directly command, and up to 5
supporting witches, one for each frontliner. You cannot have duplicate witches
in your frontline (e.g., two Fiona), but you can have the same witch with
different cards in both your frontline and backline. You also cannot have the
same witch in both slots of the the same column (e.g., you cannot have a SSR
Nadeshiko supporting a frontline UR Nadeshiko), but you can have multiple cards
of the same witch across multiple columns (e.g., an SSR and an SR of the same
witch supporting different witches, and a UR of the same witch in a different
column).

Backline members contribute 5% of their stats (power, HP, and defence) to the
member they are supporting.  All sources of stat increases apply to backline
members, coming from star and flower ranking, level, and equipement.

Power is split into physical and magical power, so make sure to have [physical-
or hybrid-type](#types) members supporting physical frontliners, and vice versa
for magical!
{:.info}


Each card has a cost to add to your team and your cost cap is determined by your
player level [todo: breakpoints]. Cost is based on the rarity of the card, and
[affection](witches#affection) reduces the cost of the card, as given below.
Backline members consume 20% of their regular cost (e.g., a UR witch at 0
affection will cost 20 points).

| Rarity | Cost       |
|--------|------------|
| UR     | 100 points |
| SSR    | 75 points  |
| SR     | 50 points  |
| R      | 20 points  |

| Affection | Cost reduction | Effective cost |
|-----------|----------------|----------------|
| Rank 5    | 10%            | 90%            |
| ?         |                |                |

### Unit skills

After reaching a certain point in the story, [unit bonds](unit-bonds) become
available.

{% include image.html file="howto-battle-bonds1.jpg" description="A team with an active LiGHTs unit skill" %}

{% include image.html file="howto-battle-bonds2.jpg" description="Available unit bonds
and their active and unlocked skills" %}

Unit bonds allow using unit skills, which grant your team passive bonuses based
on your team's composition. You can view the list of unit bonds you have
available by tapping the button in the bottom left of the team building screen.
If you have a unit selected, it will display their logo.

In the unit bond screen, skills that will be applied with your current
composition have bright icons, and skills that are unlocked but not active will
have a progress counter on them (e.g., 2/3 for the second IV Klore and Konohana
skills above). Skills that are not unlocked have a lock on them.

As with unlocking unit bonds, activiating the skills requires some or all
members of that unit in your team. The thresholds are as follows for the first,
second, and third skills:

- LiGHTs (5 members): 2 / 4 / 5 members
- IV Klore (4 members): 2 / 3 / 4 members
- Konohana, Sugar Pockets, or supernova (3 members): 1 / 2 / 3 members
- Sadistic Candy (2 members): 1 / 2 / 2 members

### Support

{% include image.html file="howto-support1.png" description="Selecting the support member slot" %}
{% include image.html file="howto-support2.png" description="Tap the support button" %}
{% include image.html file="howto-support3.png" description="Select a friend's support member" %}

You can call upon your friends’ cards for help when selecting your team before a
battle. By tapping on the right-most character portrait, then selecting the
button circled above, you can select a card owned by a friend to join you in the
battle.

Note that you can only use support up to 10 times per day.

## Making attacks

At the start of a turn, all cards have a randomly-coloured pearl assigned to
them (with one exception, later). Attacks are made by selecting one or more
pearls and confirming with the button on the right. Attacks provide MP and are
important for casting Spell Magic (later). Selecting two or more of the same
colour of pearl in a row will form a chain called a session.

Sessions apply bonus effects to the attacks in the chain. The effects are
outlined below.

|   | Red pearl    | Greatly increases damage dealt                                                    |
|   | Blue pearl   | Increases MP gained                                                               |
|   | Yellow pearl | Slightly increases damage dealt and charges available [Spell Music](#spell-music) |

The amount of MP gained from an attack is as follows:

| Red / yellow pearl | Blue pearl | MP restored |
|--------------------|------------|-------------|
| 1 session          |            | 3           |
| 2 session          | 1 session  | 5           |
| 3 session          | 2 session  | 7           |
| 4 session          | 3 session  | 10          |
|                    | 4 session  | 14          |

In addition, SSR and UR cards unlock an enhanced attack after gaining a star.
Enhanced attack pearls look like regular pearls, but have an "improved" icon.
The exact effect of an enhanced attack depends on the card, but they generally
follow the below guidelines.

|   | Red pearl    | Further increases damage dealt             |
|   | Blue pearl   | Increases damage dealt and restores HP     |
|   | Yellow pearl | Increases damage dealt and restores shield |

Enhanced pearls have a chance to appear for URs or SSRs with their Enhanced
Attack unlocked (1 star) when pearls are rolled at the start of a turn. If a
card has an enhanced pearl that is not consumed as part of an attack, it will be
retained the following turn.

## Comboes

Each successful hit in a session increases your combo meter by 1. Successive
hits deal 5% additional damage per combo level (additively). The distinction
between hit and not attack is important, as some attacks may hit multiple times,
such as Rosetta’s three-shot burst. Similarly, if an attack is dodged by the
enemy, it will not contribute to the combo.

{% include image.html file="howto-battle-combo.png" description="Combo meter for a 9-hit session" %}

For example, the 5th attack landed in a combo (4 attacks before it) will deal
20% increased damage. You can use this to your advantage by saving your
heavy-hitting attackers for later in sessions to take advantage of high combo
levels and deal even more damage.

As a combo is per-session, having two or more sessions in a single turn will not
have a shared combo meter – make long sessions of 3 or 4 pearls to maximise your
damage.

## Spell Music

Spell Music, or simply spells, is an additional type of attack that uses MP to
make. The MP cost of a spell is shown on the card – not all spells cost the same
amount of MP to cast.

You can activate as many spells in one turn as you want or can, as long as you
have the MP for it. Knocked-out or status-impaired characters cannot use their
associated spells. Unused spells are retained for the following turn, and gain
one charge. If you use a spell, you will get a new spell available to you next
turn to replace it.

After casting one or more spells, you can still make your regular attack as
above.

Spell Music can be charged by making yellow session attacks, up to a maximum of
5 charges. The charge level of a spell is shown as a yellow bar on the card.
Charging a spell increases the power of its effects (e.g., dealing more damage
or restoring more health). `needs confirmation`{:.warning}

## Shield

At the start of a battle, your witches are protected by a magic shield. When
they are attacked, some of the damage they would take is absorbed by the shield.
When the shield’s durability reaches 0, your witches will no longer be protected
and will take the full brunt of enemy attacks.

The durability of the shield is based on the total defense of your team.
Shield durability can be restored using enhanced yellow attacks, as above, or
with some forms of Spell Music.

## Types

Like any good battle game, witches and enemies all have a "type" which dictates
what kinds of attacks they are weak or resistant to, and attacks can inflict
physical or magical damage.

{% include image.html file="howto-types1.png" description="Lapis Re:LiGHTs' type effectiveness diagram" %}

{% include type_table.html %}

You can view the types of enemies and their attacks before battle, in the quest
selection screen, as well as in-battle as icons on their health bar.

{% include image.html file="howto-types2.png" description="Enemy that is able to use magical and physical attacks" %}

### Reading a battle

This section is not required to play the game at a basic level, but may be
useful knowledge for some quests.
{:.info}

A lot of information is provided relating to types in a battle, both for your
team and about the enemy's.

On an enemy's portrait, you can see:

 - their type
 - their next attack
 - their buffs and debuffs
 - of course, their current health

If you long-press on an enemy, you will get a popup describing the attack that
they will be using next turn. If you can read it, this is obviously quite
useful.

Even without knowing Japanese, you can use these indicators to your advantage,
as attacks, buffs, and debuffs are all colour-coded based on types. If an enemy 
is planning to use an <span class="t-aux">auxiliary</span> attack next turn,
often it will be a healing ability, and it's a good idea to try and finish it
off quickly. Similarly, there are a number of enemies that grant protective
buffs to them and their mates; if you see a <span
class="t-prot">protection</span> buff active on an enemy, it might be worth
focusing something else until it wears off.

## Targeting and overkill

The game will automatically target enemies for you, but you can also choose an
enemy to focus at the start of a turn. All attacks in a turn will focus the
targeted enemy until it dies.

When an enemy dies, remaining hits from a single attack (e.g., dying to the
first hit in a two-hit attack) will continue to hit the dead enemy. Successive
attacks will switch to a new target, if one is available. If there are no other
targets, any remaining attacks in the session will fire on the dead target.
`targeting priorities need confirmation`{:.warning}

Attacks made on a "dead" enemy have a chance to drop extra loot contained in
chests. There are three rarities of chests. Causing more overkill damage
increases the chance to drop chests, but will not improve the chances for a rare
chest. `requires confirmation`{:.warning}

Common (brown) chests have no limit to the number of times they can drop, but
blue and red chests can only drop up to 20 times per day.

Blue and red chests can drop gems! The drop rate for gems from these chests
appears to be around 10%, and can contain up to 15 gems per drop.
{:.success}

## Statuses

Status conditions are divided into damaging and impairing status conditions.
Multiple damaging status conditions can be applied at once (e.g., poison and
burn), but only one impairing status condition can be active at a time (i.e,.
cannot be both asleep and frozen). Triggering a new impairing status condition
while one is already active will replace the old one.

Damaging status conditions can be stacked up to 7 times each. Boss monsters are
more resistant to damaging status conditions than regular monsters.

Impairing status conditions must be applied 3 times before the status condition
will activate. `stacking behaviour requires confirmation`{:.warning}

### Damaging status conditions

{% include inline_image.html file="howto-status-poison.png" title="Poison" description="Deals a % of maximum HP as damage each turn, before the character attacks. Damage dealt increases with stacks." %}

{% include inline_image.html file="howto-status-burn.png" title="Burn" description="Deals a % of maximum HP as damage each turn, before the character attacks. Consumes 1 stack each time it deals damage, eventually petering out." %}

{% include inline_image.html file="howto-status-bleed.png" title="Bleed" description="Deals a % of maximum HP as damage each turn, before the character attacks, and reduces the effectiveness of healing." %}
`requires confirmation`{:.warning}

### Impairing status conditions

This section requires confirmation.
{:.warning}

{% include inline_image.html file="howto-status-sleep.png" title="Sleep" description="The character cannot attack or cast spells. Damage will always result in a critical hit. Ends when taking damage or after 3 turns." %}

{% include inline_image.html file="howto-status-freeze.png" title="Freeze" description="The character cannot attack or cast spells, and does not take damage from poison, burn, or bleed. Ends after 3 turns." %}

{% include inline_image.html file="howto-status-charm.png" title="Charm" description="The character cannot attack or cast spells. Ends after 3 turns." %}

{% include inline_image.html file="howto-status-stun.png" title="Stun" description="The character cannot attack or cast spells. Ends after 3 turns." %}
