---
title: Basics and team-building
permalink: /guide/battle
excerpt: >
    Preparing for combat, covering the team building menu and calling for
    outside help to support you.
---

{% include image.html file="howto-team.png" description="Building a team" %}

A team consists of up to 5 witches that you will directly command, and up to 5
supporting witches, one for each frontliner. You cannot have duplicate witches
in your frontline (e.g., two Fiona), but you can have the same witch with
different cards in both your frontline and backline. You also cannot have the
same witch in both slots of the the same column (e.g., you cannot have a SSR
Nadeshiko supporting a frontline UR Nadeshiko), but you can have multiple cards
of the same witch across multiple columns (e.g., an SSR and an SR of the same
witch supporting different witches, and a UR of the same witch in a different
column).

Backline members contribute 5% of their stats (power, HP, and defence) to the
member they are supporting.  All sources of stat increases apply to backline
members, coming from star and flower ranking, level, and equipement.

Power is split into physical and magical power, so make sure to have [physical-
or hybrid-type]({% link guide/1.2.4-types.md %}) members supporting physical
frontliners, and vice versa for magical!
{:.info}

Each card has a cost to add to your team and your cost cap is determined by your
player level. Cost is based on the rarity of the card, and
[affection](witches#affection) reduces the cost of the card, as given below.
Backline members consume 20% of their regular cost (e.g., a UR witch at 0
affection will cost 20 points).

| Rarity | Cost       |
|--------|------------|
| UR     | 100 points |
| SSR    | 75 points  |
| SR     | 50 points  |
| R      | 20 points  |

| Affection | Cost reduction | Effective cost |
|-----------|----------------|----------------|
| Rank 5    | 10%            | 90%            |
| Rank 21   | 10%            | 80%            |

### Unit skills

After reaching a certain point in the story, [unit bonds](unit-bonds) become
available.

{% include image.html file="howto-battle-bonds1.jpg" description="A team with an active LiGHTs unit skill" %}

{% include image.html file="howto-battle-bonds2.jpg" description="Available unit bonds
and their active and unlocked skills" %}

Unit bonds allow using unit skills, which grant your team passive bonuses based
on your team's composition. You can view the list of unit bonds you have
available by tapping the button in the bottom left of the team building screen.
If you have a unit selected, it will display their logo.

In the unit bond screen, skills that will be applied with your current
composition have bright icons, and skills that are unlocked but not active will
have a progress counter on them (e.g., 2/3 for the second IV Klore and Konohana
skills above). Skills that are not unlocked have a lock on them.

As with unlocking unit bonds, activiating the skills requires some or all
members of that unit in your team. The thresholds are as follows for the first,
second, and third skills:

- LiGHTs (5 members): 2 / 4 / 5 members
- IV Klore (4 members): 2 / 3 / 4 members
- Konohana, Sugar Pockets, or supernova (3 members): 2 / 3 / 3 members
- Sadistic Candy (2 members): 2 / 2 / 2 members

### Support

{% include image.html file="howto-support1.png" description="Selecting the support member slot" %}
{% include image.html file="howto-support2.png" description="Tap the support button" %}
{% include image.html file="howto-support3.png" description="Select a friend's support member" %}

You can call upon your friends’ cards for help when selecting your team before a
battle. By tapping on the right-most character portrait, then selecting the
button circled above, you can select a card owned by a friend to join you in the
battle.

Note that you can only use support up to 10 times per day.
