---
title: Making attacks
permalink: /guide/attacks
excerpt: >
    Learn how to navigate the basic flow of a battle, dealing damage, and
    taking it.
---

At the start of a turn, all cards have a randomly-coloured pearl assigned to
them (with one exception, later). Attacks are made by selecting one or more
pearls and confirming with the button on the right. Attacks provide MP and are
important for casting Spell Magic (later). Selecting two or more of the same
colour of pearl in a row will form a chain called a session.

Sessions apply bonus effects to the attacks in the chain. The effects are
outlined below.

|   | Red pearl    | Greatly increases damage dealt                                                                        |
|   | Blue pearl   | Increases MP gained                                                                                   |
|   | Yellow pearl | Slightly increases damage dealt and charges available [Spell Music]({% link guide/1.2.3-spells.md %}) |

The amount of MP gained from an attack is as follows:

| Red / yellow pearl | Blue pearl | MP restored |
|--------------------|------------|-------------|
| 1 session          |            | 3           |
| 2 session          | 1 session  | 5           |
| 3 session          | 2 session  | 7           |
| 4 session          | 3 session  | 10          |
|                    | 4 session  | 14          |

In addition, SSR and UR cards unlock an enhanced attack after gaining a star.
Enhanced attack pearls look like regular pearls, but have a more dramatic icon.
The effects of enhanced attacks vary by card, but all will have an effect of
boosting the power of the regular pearl it replaces, such as mana restoration or
spell charging. If a card has an enhanced pearl that is not consumed as part of
an attack, it will be retained the following turn.

## Comboes

Each successful hit in a session increases your combo meter by 1. Successive
hits deal 5% additional damage per combo level (additively). The distinction
between hit and not attack is important, as some attacks may hit multiple times,
such as Rosetta’s three-shot burst. Similarly, if an attack is dodged by the
enemy, it will not contribute to the combo.

{% include image.html file="howto-battle-combo.png" description="Combo meter for a 9-hit session" %}

For example, the 5th attack landed in a combo (4 attacks before it) will deal
20% increased damage. You can use this to your advantage by saving your
heavy-hitting attackers for later in sessions to take advantage of high combo
levels and deal even more damage.

As a combo is per-session, having two or more sessions in a single turn will not
have a shared combo meter – make long sessions of 3 or 4 pearls to maximise your
damage.

## Magic Shield

At the start of a battle, your witches are protected by a magic shield. When
they are attacked, some of the damage they would take is absorbed by the shield.
When the shield’s durability reaches 0, your witches will no longer be protected
and will take the full brunt of enemy attacks.

The durability of the shield is based on the total defense of your team.
Shield durability can be restored using enhanced yellow attacks, as above, or
with some forms of Spell Music.
