---
title: Types
permalink: /guide/types
excerpt: >
    Information on type matchups to optimise your team for each battle.
---

Like any good battle game, witches and enemies all have a "type" which dictates
what kinds of attacks they are weak or resistant to, and attacks can inflict
physical or magical damage.

{% include image.html file="howto-types1.png" description="Lapis Re:LiGHTs' type effectiveness diagram" %}

{% include guide/type_table.html %}

You can view the types of enemies and their attacks before battle, in the quest
selection screen, as well as in-battle as icons on their health bar.

{% include image.html file="howto-types2.png" description="Enemy that is able to use magical and physical attacks" %}

## Reading a battle

This section is not required to play the game at a basic level, but may be
useful knowledge for some quests.
{:.info}

A lot of information is provided relating to types in a battle, both for your
team and about the enemy's.

On an enemy's portrait, you can see:

 - their type
 - their next attack
 - their buffs and debuffs
 - of course, their current health

If you long-press on an enemy, you will get a popup describing the attack that
they will be using next turn. If you can read it, this is obviously quite
useful.

Even without knowing Japanese, you can use these indicators to your advantage,
as attacks, buffs, and debuffs are all colour-coded based on types. If an enemy 
is planning to use an <span class="t-aux">support</span> attack next turn,
often it will be a healing ability, and it's a good idea to try and finish it
off quickly. Similarly, there are a number of enemies that grant protective
buffs to them and their mates; if you see a <span
class="t-prot">protection</span> buff active on an enemy, it might be worth
focusing something else until it wears off.
