---
title: Witch and card mechanics
permalink: /guide/witches
---

## Affection

As you progress through the game, you can grow closer to the witches in your
class and learn more about them, and maybe even...?!

Affection increases by giving gifts, interacting, listening to their stories or
messages or calls, and similar interactions.

Every 5 affection ranks, you will gain some rewards and potentially unlock new
major features or systems.

While not listed in the table for consistency, there are additional voice line
unlocks at every level ending in 0, 5, and 8 (5, 8, 10, etc.).

{% include affection_table.html %}

## Levelling

`TODO`{:.warning}

## Star ranking

{% include image.html file="howto-witch-star.png" description="Stats gained from
improving the star ranking" %}

Star ranking is the secondary method of improving your cards, and unlocks stat
improvements and new skills.

Increasing star ranking consumes *Secrets of Stars scrolls*, or more simply
*scrolls*, which can be acquired through witch activities, hard quests (on first
completion), and examination resource quests.

A card’s star ranking affects their level cap (in combination with your player
ranking), unlocks new skills, and increases stats.

For SSR and UR cards, star rank 1 is incredibly important as it unlocks their
[enhanced attack](battle#making-attacks), which is vital for their use.

## Flower ranking

{% include image.html file="howto-witch-flower.png" description="Improving the
flower ranking of Ratura" %}

Flower ranking is equivalent to evolving cards in other games, and unlocks
improvements for the skills of cards.

Increasing flower ranking consumes *star stones*, specific to card to be
improved. Star stones are acquired from duplicate cards in gacha (30 shards
each), through card quests, and through hard story quest lines.

Instead of using specific star stones improve flower ranking, UR cards can
utilise *heavenly star stones* `translation pending`{:.warning} as substitute
star stones. Heavenly star stones are not locked to a specific card, which makes
them very versatile in a pinch. However, they are difficult or expensive to
obtain.
{:.info}

The cost of improving flower ranking goes up with each rank, as below.

| Rank X | Cost                               |
|:------:|------------------------------------|
| 1      | 10                                 |
| 2      | 30                                 |
| 3      | 50                                 |
| 4      | `requires confirmation`{:.warning} |
| 5      | `requires confirmation`{:.warning} |
| 6      | `requires confirmation`{:.warning} |

Higher rarity cards have additional flower ranking stages: while a R card has
only 3 ranks, a UR card has 6 ranks!

Some cards may give cosmetic headpieces, such as earrings or headbands, for
reaching flower rank 2. The simplest example of this is with the initial SR
cards.

## Equipment enhancement

Equipment is improved by imbuing them with magic from *spellbooks* obtained through unit quests. All equipment can be imbued, but only one imbuement can be active at once. Just like cards, spellbooks come in multiple rarities, from R to `requires confirmation`{:.warning}. Higher-rarity spellbooks confer stronger individual effects.

Spellbooks come in multiple flavours and grant different effects based on their type:

- LiGHTs quests: *guard* and *repair* spellbooks
- IV Klore quests: *magna* and *force* spellbooks
- Konohana quests: *heal* and *shield* spellbooks
- Sugar Pockets quests: `requires confirmation`{:.warning}
- Sadistic Candy quests: `requires confirmation`{:.warning}
- supernova quests: `requires confirmation`{:.warning}

Having multiple pieces of equipment with the same imbuement will grant bonus effects to the character equipping them.

| Spellbook | 3-piece bonus                        | 6-piece bonus                                           |
|-----------|--------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| *flash*   | 5% bonus physical and magical attack | 10% bonus offensive damage                              |
| *force*   | 5% bonus physical and magical attack | 20% bonus physical and magical attack when above 80% HP |
| *guard*   | `requires confirmation`{:.warning}   | `requires confirmation`{:.warning}                      |
| *heal*    | 15% bonus HP                         | `requires translation`{:.warning}                       |
| *magna*   | `requires confirmation`{:.warning}   | `requires confirmation`{:.warning}                      |
| *repair*  | `requires confirmation`{:.warning}   | `requires confirmation`{:.warning}                      |
| *shield*  | 10% bonus defences                   | 10% chance to recover 30% shield when attacking         |
| *smash*   | 7% bonus critical chance             | 25% bonus critical damage                               |

{% include image.html file="howto-enhance2.png" description="Selecting a spellbook to apply" %}

In the enhancement screen, you can see your available spellbooks on the left, the currently-selected equipment, and any spellbook effects applied to it. Applying a spellbook can be confirmed by tapping the red button. Applying a spellbook will consume it.

{% include image.html file="howto-enhance3.png" description="Applying a heal spellbook and receiving two SS-rated bonuses" %}

Applying a spellbook will confer ranom stat bonuses onto the equipment based on the type of spellbook, with rarer spellbooks granting larger bonuses. You can see which end of the possible range of values an individual bonus is, along with a rating from C to SS.

{% include image.html file="howto-enhance5.png" description="Cancelling an enhancement" %}

You can choose to apply the enhancement by tapping the blue button, or cancel applying the enhancement by closing the window in the top-right. You will be asked to confirm this action; the red button will return you to the window, and the blue button will close the window and return you to the top screen.

Spellbooks are consumed regardless of whether you accept an enhancement or not. You can't just keep rolling the same spellbook forever!
{:.error}

{% include image.html file="howto-enhance4.png" description="Replacing an existing enhancement" %}

You might not be happy with the bonuses you received, because they were too weak or of the wrong type. Replacing an enhancement is the same process as initially applying one. You can see a comparison of your enhancement bonuses before choosing to accept the enhancement, so you don't have to remember what you had previously.

TODO: list bonuses and originating spellbooks
{:.warning}
