---
title: Equipment
permalink: /guide/equipment
excerpt: >
    Equipment is improved by imbuing them with magic from spellbooks obtained
    through unit quests.
---

{% include TODO.html %}
<!-- Include section on basics of equipment. -->

## Enhancing

Equipment is improved by imbuing them with magic from *spellbooks* obtained
through unit quests. All equipment can be imbued, but only one imbuement can be
active at once. Just like cards, spellbooks come in multiple rarities, from R to
SSR `requires confirmation`{:.warning}. Higher-rarity spellbooks confer stronger
individual effects.

Spellbooks come in multiple flavours and grant different effects based on their type:

- LiGHTs quests: *guard* and *repair* spellbooks
- IV Klore quests: *magna* and *force* spellbooks
- Konohana quests: *heal* and *shield* spellbooks
- Sugar Pockets quests: `requires confirmation`{:.warning}
- Sadistic Candy quests: `requires confirmation`{:.warning}
- supernova quests: *rush* spellbooks `requires confirmation`{:.warning}

Having multiple pieces of equipment with the same imbuement will grant bonus
effects to the character equipping them.

| Spellbook | 3-piece bonus                        | 6-piece bonus                                                 |
|-----------|--------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| *force*   | 5% bonus magical attack and defence  | 20% bonus magical attack when above 80% HP                    |
| *guard*   | 10% bonus defences[^1]               | 10% damage reduction                                          |
| *heal*    | 15% bonus HP                         | Healing (from spells, skills, etc.) is 10% more effective[^2] |
| *magna*   | 5% bonus physical attack and defence | 20% bonus physical damage when above 80% HP                   |
| *repair*  | 15% bonus HP                         | 10% chance to recover 15% HP when hit                         |
| *rush*    | 5% bonus physical and magical attack | 10% bonus offensive damage                                    |
| *shield*  | 10% bonus defences                   | 10% chance to recover 30% shield when attacking               |
| *smash*   | 7% bonus critical chance             | 25% bonus critical damage                                     |

Since the 6-piece bonuses require having six pieces of equipment, they
effectively require affection level 20 to unlock for a character.
{:.info}

[^1]: The 3-piece *guard* bonus appears to be mislabeled or implemented incorrectly; the toolip says 15%, but actually gives 10%
[^2]: This refers to healing abilities *made by* the character, not healing *targeting* the character

{% include image.html file="howto-enhance2.png" description="Selecting a spellbook to apply" %}

In the enhancement screen, you can see your available spellbooks on the left,
the currently-selected equipment, and any spellbook effects applied to it.
Applying a spellbook can be confirmed by tapping the red button. Applying a
spellbook will consume it.

{% include image.html file="howto-enhance3.png" description="Applying a heal spellbook and receiving two SS-rated bonuses" %}

Applying a spellbook will confer ranom stat bonuses onto the equipment based on
the type of spellbook, with rarer spellbooks granting larger bonuses. You can
see which end of the possible range of values an individual bonus is, along with
a rating from C to SS.

{% include image.html file="howto-enhance5.png" description="Cancelling an enhancement" %}

You can choose to apply the enhancement by tapping the blue button, or cancel
applying the enhancement by closing the window in the top-right. You will be
asked to confirm this action; the red button will return you to the window, and
the blue button will close the window and return you to the top screen.

Spellbooks are consumed regardless of whether you accept an enhancement or not. You can't just keep rolling the same spellbook forever!
{:.error}

{% include image.html file="howto-enhance4.png" description="Replacing an existing enhancement" %}

You might not be happy with the bonuses you received, because they were too weak
or of the wrong type. Replacing an enhancement is the same process as initially
applying one. You can see a comparison of your enhancement bonuses before
choosing to accept the enhancement, so you don't have to remember what you had
previously.

TODO: list bonuses and originating spellbooks
{:.warning}
