---
title: Stats
permalink: /guide/stats
excerpt: >
    Card statistics, what they refer to, and how to improve them.
---

{% include TODO.html %}

Total and card statistics can be accessed by tapping on the arrow to the right
of a witch or card's statistic box.

Stats are contributed from all of:

- the witch's type, determining base stats;
- the individual card;
- the witch's equipment;
- spellbook seals on equipment pieces; and
- miscellaneous bonuses contributed from spellbook seals.

Scroll down for an explanation on what stats do.

{% include image.html file="stats1.png" description="First page of card statistics" large="" %}

{% include image.html file="stats2.png" description="Second page of card statistics, showing the last rows of critical damage, avoidance, and reduction" large="" %}

{% include image.html file="stats3.png" description="Card power details" large="" %}

- **HP**: Increases health for the card.
- **Defence**: Increases total magic shield 1:1.
- **Physical attack**: Base power of physical attacks.
- **Magical attack**: Base power of magical attacks.
- **Agility**: Used for determining turn order in arena battles.
- **Accuracy**: Modifier used to land hits on enemies.
- **Evasion**: Modifier used to avoid hits from enemies.
- **Critical chance**: Chance to land critical hits on an enemy.
- **Critical damage**: Damage modifier used when landing a critical hits.
- **Critical avoidance**: Chance of reducing a critical hit to a normal hit `requires confirmation`{:.warning}.
- **Critical damage reduction**: Damage reduction applied when taking a critical hit.
