---
title: Witch Activities
permalink: /guide/activities
---

{% include image.html file="howto-activities1.png" description="The witch activities main interface" %}

After clearing story mission 3-6, witch activities become available. You can
send girls away in a team to perform activities and collect resources for you.

{% include image.html file="howto-activities2.png" description="Selecting a group of witches to depart on an activity" %}

Activities take time to complete and certain compositions can grant bonus
rewards. Cards can have one or two personal skills or items as given by the blue
icons, which are also visible on the card’s profile. These relate to the girl’s
character in some fashion, but different cards for the same girl may have
different skills! Both of the Lynette cards above have an attribute relating to
her role as a library committee member, but the Ashley cards have different
attributes related to her sewing skills and her swordsmanship.

{% include image.html file="howto-activities3-detail.png" description="Navigating the activity selection" %}

In the activity selection menu, each activity lists:

1. Chance of bonus rewards upon completion
2. Main bonus reward
3. Regular rewards
4. Bonus skills/attributes
5. Time to complete (1 hour in the example)

You can select up to 3 cards to participate in an activity, though some
activities (mostly giving rare resources) may limit you to 2. Successfully
completing the activity will always give some rewards, such as flora and
experience items. 

In addition, each activity has a chance to reward a rare, bonus resource, such
as presents, additional flora, or gems. An activity has a base bonus chance that
can be increased by matching participating cards’ attributes to those listed in
the bonus attribute section, up to a maximum of 100%. These attributes may
relate to a witch’s interests or abilities as above, or to card attributes such
as star ranking or rarity.

You can use gems to double the bonus rewards of an activity.

You have access to ten activities per day, `requires confirmation`{:.warning}
though only 3 will be available at once. New activities are made available as
they are started, not completed. New activities can be generated for a large gem
cost, and gives a chance at super-rare activities. `requires
confirmation`{:.warning}

Cards can only participate in one activity at a time, and while on an activity,
they are still available for battling.
