---
title: Magical Beast Defence
permalink: /guide/magical-beast
---

Magical beasts are going wild around Flora Girls'! You'll need to work with
your guild companions to stop them!

Repelling the attacking magical beasts is an event that occurs in three phases.
In each phase, you'll work with your guildmates to accomplish objectives,
earning rewards along the way. This means that **you must be in a guild to
participate.**

Working towards goals will grant you valuable rewards such as gems, pyroxene,
and badges that can be exchanged for a variety of goods. Accomplishing major
objectives will reward everyone in the guild even more!

## In general

Since you have to work as a team, there are some bonuses and some restrictions
for the entire guild during the event.

Each member in your guild can only fight 3 times per day, so it's important to
have as many people contributing as possible! Unlike other events and most other
battles, there is no way to increase this limit.

When completing daily missions for a guild, you earn gold that goes into a
shared fund (4 per mission). These can now be used by the guild leader to unlock
temporary bonuses affecting the entire guild for a short time, giving (from left
to right) large bonuses to damage, defence, or the magic shield.

{% include image.html file="majuu-bonus.png" %}

You will earn points for your guild through the event by fighting monsters and
dealing damage. At the end of the event, all guilds are ranked by the total
damage they've done to monsters and are rewarded, with nearly 2000 gems given to
each member in the guild!

Finally, to prevent gaming the system and discourage people joining only "good"
guilds, leaders cannot forcibly remove people from their guild while the event
is on, and you cannot claim the same reward (such as a phase 1 clear reward)
multiple times by swapping guilds mid-way through.

## Phase 1

The first phase involves defending a number of locations around the school from
magical beasts. Each fight will involve three waves of three monsters, and the
beasts must be repelled a total of fifteen times (15 sets of 3 waves) to clear
the phase.

{% include image.html file="majuu-phase1.png" description="Overview during phase 1" %}

If you fail to clear all three waves in a single attempt, you or another member
can pick up from where you left off, so your progress isn't entirely lost.

## Phase 2

The second phase has you work with your guild to take down a single powerful
boss monster. Its HP is shared across your entire guild, so everyone has to chip
in to wear it out. Once it's downed, you will move on to phase three.

In addition, there are three smaller boss monsters in the region. Similar to the
main boss monster, they have shared HP pools across your guild. Defeating them
will inflict strong debuffs on the main boss monster: decreasing attack power,
physical defence, and magical defence.

## Phase 3

The final phase is an onslaught of attacks from multiple large boss monsters.
Defeating one will have another boss take its place, and the attacks will only
end once the event period is finished. Once again, each boss has a shared HP for
your entire guild, so keep working together!

Similar to the second phase, there will be one large boss monster, and three
smaller boss monsters; taking down smaller bosses will make it easier to fight
the large one.
